Special HP secret arguments for the CSET_CLOSE and MASTER_CHANGE commands:

The cset_close and master_change commands each take two secret, optional
arguments.  These are:

     -secret-userid
     -secret-cset-name

The -secret-userid argment is immediately followed by a user-name.  The 
-secret-cset-name argument is just a switch and is not followed by 
anything special.  However, if you specify the -secret-cset-name argument,
you must also use the (normal) -name argument but in this case it must be
followed by a fully qualified cset name.

These two secret arguments are mutually exclusive.  You will get an error
(too many arguments) if you use them together.  Also a special global
switch (*conman-enable-secret-cset-zapping*) must be set to T to use either
of these secret arguments at all.  If this special global switch is not
used, you will get an error for any use of these secret arguments.  This 
is set by adding the following line to changesafe-server-config.lsp:

     (setq *conman-enable-secret-cset-zapping* t)

Note that there is no documentation in changesafe-server-config.lsp about
this particular switch.  This is intentional.  This document is the only
documentation for these secret arguments.

In general if we detect any problems at all with the use of these secret
arguments you will get a specific error (too many arguments) which lists 
the particular secret argument that is having problems.  In one case,
when using -secret-cset-name, you can also get a too-few-arguments error.
This can occur if you specify -secret-cset-name but do not give us a cset
name via the -name argument.  When the -secret-cset-name argument is used
the -name argument is not optional even if you specified a name when the
cset_create command was given.

The lack of really informative errors is intentional as the arguments are
secret and we do not want anyone other than specific HP people using them.
This is the only documentation.

A fully qualified cset name is textual and consists of:

     a username
     _        <an underscore>
     a date string (yyyymmdd)
     _        <an underscore>
     a product name
     :        <a colon>
     a regular, unqualified user cset name

We use the underscores and colon to determine that you have given us a 
well-formed fully qualified cset name.  Only small attempts are made 
to determine if you have given us a valid username, a valid date, a
valid product name or a valid regular, unqualified user cset name. 
You are expected to get these parts right and put them together 
properly. 

If these secret arguments are used, we will either use the given 
-secret-userid or the username given as part of the fully qualified 
cset name to be the user name associated with this cset in our database.
This works because only one of these arguments may be used at a time.

Note that using either of these secret arguments will not change the
actual date-time that we store with our meta-data as to when the cset
was created.  They only affect the user-name and the fully qualified 
name of the cset.
